Gym-management-system
This project is based on a gymnasium management system. A gymnasium (gym) is an indoor facility that allows one to exercise or pursue indoor sports. Culturally, it is now an important and essential haven for self-improvement and therefore, an integral, undeniable part of modern culture.
It is quite sequential therefore to assume that such an important and unavoidable facet of modern life would require a rigorous and robust system for its day-to-day maintenance and management. This project aims to offer a small glimpse into the functioning of a gym management system, and a representational prototype of a few functions that are a part of currently used gym management systems.

For this project's completion, we have used software such as MySQL and Python to create a relational database with multiple relations (tables) which can be linked using foreign keys. Python was used to create a more user-friendly interface, which can take inputs from the users and the program is then connected to the database management system of SQL using the mysql- connector.
Moreover, our system has huge scope for improvement and implementation. A 2018 study by the International Food Information Council found that millennials are more likely to prioritize health and wellness when making food choices than previous generations. The study found that 80% of millennials consider health benefits when selecting foods, compared to 64% of baby boomers (born between 1946 and 1964). Thus, with an increase in the footfalls to gyms, as people begin to prioritize fitness and health, for the first time after the advent of the global pandemic, it is natural to assume that more gyms would require a management system.
 
It can be concluded from this project that we have successfully used Python and MySQLto make a Gym Management System for its appropriate users. A gym management system enhances member experience and boosts overall efficiency in fitness facilities.
This management system will serve great purpose in the future, making staying fit and regularly exercising a straightforward process, which will not require rigorous effort in managing schedules and trainers, making diet plans, etc. The system’s instantaneous outputs simplify administrative tasks and effectively manage resources to help gyms deliver an efficient and comfortable fitness environment to their members.
